In this lecture, you'll learn about client to site remote access VPN with the school, any connect
client to Cisco, any connect client is a remote access VPN application which uses the AC firewall.
You saw in the last lecture when we configured the site to say VPN, the site to say VPN tunnel can
terminate either on a firewall or a router.
The firewall would be the Cisco EMC with the attorney client that's going to terminate on the firewall,
not on a Cisco and where the site to site Tunnell's.
We're using IP sac the any connect remote access VPN users.
When you go figure you're going to see the option it has.
There is SSL because Clash and SSL are still somewhat used interchangeably.
SSL is they're actually deprecated is being replaced with Helus, but where else is used?
You'll often see that it's actually still described as SSL.
For example, if you buy a certificate for use on Internet, you'll see that it is being called an SSL
certificate, even though it is actually Tlisova is being used.
So just be aware, if you do see SSL being mentioned anywhere, that's fine.
You are actually going to be using Talash because TLC is the update for SSL.
And you can see here a screenshot of using the client, so with the example topology, we've got our
main site over here on the right.
And because any connect, it is a remote access VPN.
It's a client.
The site VPN, you can have this installed on your laptop.
So if you go traveling anywhere, if you're in a hotel or if you're working from home, you can fire
up the any connect client on your laptop, as you can see here.
And from there you can connect into the corporate site.
When you do that, the VPN tunnel is going to terminate on the firewall.
So this traffic is going to be encrypted all the way from your laptop over to the firewall.
So if you are working in a hotel or somewhere like that, that's fine, because it's not just from the
hotel, it's actually from your laptop.
The traffic is going to be encrypted because obviously the network infrastructure and hotel, you're
not going to be trusting that either.
OK, so that's why any connect VPN client.
Now, there's a couple of different ways that this can be enabled, and this is going to be chosen by
the network security administrator.
You can either use tunneling or fuel tunneling.
When you use split tunneling, the corporate traffic is going to go over the VPN tunnel to the corporate
site.
Your public Web traffic, for example, when you're browsing normal sites on the Internet, that is
going to go out directly to the Internet but is not going to go through the tunnel.
So as you can see here, when we do have switched tunneling enabled for traffic, that is going to the
corporate website that is going to go through the VPN tunnel and that is going to be encrypted.
But when we're browsing through a normal Internet Web server that is going to go directly, it's not
going through the VPN tunnel.
The other way that we can do it is with full tunnel that we're full tunneling or corporate traffic.
And your normal Internet browsing from your client are going to go through the VPN tunnel.
So you can see the difference here now is traffic that's going the corporate office is going through
the VPN tunnel, traffic going to a public web server.
Our own Internet bot also goes through the tunnel as well.
And then it gets here, pinned back there out to the Internet.
So the reason why you would use one or the other if you implement full tunneling, but force is all
traffic to go through the VPN tunnel and go through the main site.
So that allows you to enforce security policies on your staff members.
Whenever traveling with their laptops, for example, you could specify the types of websites they're
allowed to go through.
So because everything is going through your centralized main site here, you can enforce security policies
at that point.
The downside of using full tunneling is that maybe the user is in Chicago, your head office is in New
York and you're browsing a website which is also in Chicago.
Well, if the were using tunneling, that would just go straight from Chicago to Chicago.
It wouldn't have to go all the way through the tunnel to the head office and back again.
So you would get better performance.
So you can get better performance if you're using split tunneling, but you can get better, more centralized
security if you use fuel tunneling.
OK, but everything as far as this exam is concerned for our remote access VPN to you in the next lecture.